20 years of people of Tennessee were forced from your senator's office in Washington.
All the principal half means in the United States Senate during the past week in which you would be interested.
On this particular occasion, I'm very happy to have in the studio with me one of the outstanding and best known United members of the United States Senate Senate.
Senator Miller Tideyms of Maryland, incidentally, as Senator Tideyms is a young man from all appearances in action.
Certainly he gets a lot of things done.
Senator Tideyms came to the House of Representatives back in 1922.
And then in 1926 he came over to the Senate side with a capital where he's been serving since that time.
Senator Tideyms has been making a number of speeches which have had very wide appeal and great publicity throughout the nation and throughout the world.
Reporting on the armament race that we are now engaged in and proposing a world as armament conference while there still may be possibly time to do something about it.
And I have the Athenian Ladies and Gentlemen out of all of the people in the Congress of the United States and perhaps in the executive departments also with two or three exceptions.
That there's no American better qualified to talk about the armament condition today and what should be done than Senator Tideyms.
I say this for the reason that Senator Tideyms happens to serve on the three committees in the United States Senate and have more to do with our foreign policy, our armaments and matters affecting the age bomb and the aid bomb than any other committees.
Those committees are the great committee on foreign relations of the Senate and then the armed services committee of the Senate of which Senator Tideyms is chairman.
And then Senator Tideyms is a member of the joint committee of the House and Senate for the study of atomic activities.
Senator Tideyms, I have listened with a great deal of interest to your various speeches on the floor of the Senate and have read most of the parts that I've been get to here.
I would like to ask you first what you think of the armament race situation in the world today and why is it that you're making this proposal for a world-est armament conference.
Well, Senator Tideyms, before I answer directly your questions, I'm going to take this opportunity to tell the people of Tennessee how much I have appreciated your industry and comprehension of the work that comes before the Senate Armed Services Committee of which you are.
You know, to meet our national and defense, international and defense problems, we require members who have some comprehension of international events as well as of our own defense.
And it has been a matter of encouragement and great help to me in trying to put our defenses in a state of adequacy to have your help and assistance which you have given so freely in which you've counted so much in any program we have evolved.
Now, if you'll ask me, well, I would appreciate those generous words, as they frankly they were unexpected, but they are aware before they're served.
But they are very greatly appreciated and I hope that my father and members of my family have been a lot of good to hear this.
Well, the question I have asked, I expect you know more about the armament situation in the world today than any member of the United States Senate.
And would you mind telling us so just what the situation is in this contest in which we are engaged in supporting armaments?
I'd like to give you a great first-side view of it in the short while we have Senator.
You have other questions. I must make this answer short.
Russia has 200 military divisions. In being, there are between 10 and 15,000 persons of a division.
Many of these Russian divisions are heavily armored. They're battle-tested and trained. They are really cracked troops.
These are large measures of troops that beat Hitler. The thought of single hands were almost from 1941,
under 1944 when the Allies landed on the European continent.
Against these 200 Russian divisions, we in the United States have approximately 10.
Russia is developing a great fleet of very highly powered and damaging and dangerous submarines.
Russia has an air force that in many respects is superior to ours in number and is very high in quality.
Only in the intercontinental field has she up to the present not master some of our great bombers.
We both have the atomic bomb. Fortunately, we have a larger stockpile because we've been working on it longer than has Russia.
We invented it first, way back in 1945.
But, since we are committed to defend the Western European community,
Russia has her great land force and her great air force poised on the very borders of these Western European countries,
Denmark, Norway, Belgium, Holland, France, etc.
Our great forces 3000 miles away.
In many respects, the Russian military potential is superior to ours in other respects we are here.
And arms races off. If wars should come, it would be fought with the most devastating weapons ever conceived of in the mind of man.
And could make us shambles out of both countries both out of defeated and defeated countries.
But our Senator Tying's against these 200 Russian divisions in Europe that you have talked about in incidentally,
I understand they have the most modern and effective tanks that any nation has ever developed in them.
To the present they have the best tank in the world, so stated by General Bradley, the chief about joint chiefs of staff.
How about the divisions or the potential of our friends in Western Europe, such as in French and in the British?
Do they have anything comparable to what the Russians have?
They do not send it to keep over. And I'll tell you this, which is the thing we ought to keep in mind for four long years.
Most all of these Western European countries were occupied by the enemy during which time their military forces were dismembered and scattered.
They were far over back and forth, backfrees, homes, bridges, industrial plants were destroyed and damaged.
Therefore they have not the means at the moment to create a great military potential.
Their efforts are properly and understandably devoted to rebuilding their homes, bridges, highways, rehabilitating their railroads and getting the economy in business life with the country going.
Well, without as strong economic life, these countries cannot get the taxes with which to support a military status.
And Senator Tainey's I heard you say in substance that since this arm is raised his arm that we and also the Russians are devoting more and more of our effort and of our national resources to the building of parliaments and if we keep on at this pace that you think that a war may very well be inevitable.
It could be, it could be caused by accident or either country could fear that the other was about to attack and try to grab the initiative.
Now Senator Tainey, you put your finger right on the sensitive nerve and the question you've asked.
The Russians are now devoting 30% almost of a hot forever to their military.
We are devoting 6% of all the income of our people to our military and it is those in a sentence or two the striking effort that Russia is making to gain the military supremacy of the world in my judgment.
And yet we feel that even our 6% that we are not able to maintain the tax burden and the income is necessary to carry that on.
That's right, we find it at horrific burden and of course if the Russian potential increases we will have to spend more money to match it.
So what we face unless we can get some better solution is more of the less taxes for the military.
Well before I get to the next question you mentioned a few minutes ago the fact that we did have some head start over the Russians with the atomic bomb.
That's right and perhaps we may have some head start and so far as the hydrogen bomb is concerned.
But is your information in the Russians are devoting a very large part of their resources to the development of atomic energy and do you think that sometime in the future unless something's done they may equal our surpassing the country?
And the field of atomic warfare or atomic development?
They are devoting a considerable portion of their effort, their war effort to the development of atomic weapons and to keep hover.
There's no doubt they're also working on the development of the new hydrogen bomb which we are engaged in also.
Now as to their reaching inequality with us I don't see this as a possibility in the atomic field for some years to come.
It takes a long while to translate the will to create these bombs into France and know how and so on to make them reality.
Well we have such a head start but eventually they will have a large stock pile of bombs and so will we but they will still be superior on land where they are 20 times as strong in numbers as we are.
They're building up their air force very rapidly and in some categories have surpassed that of our own in numbers and in ships of a high quality so that we have to look at the whole picture and the whole picture is not a rosy one for peace.
You don't get ready to build great armaments without properly thinking that war is a strong possibility.
Now as interterterter I am delighted and I know that the American people are pleased that there are people in the United States Senate, great statesmen who are trying to do something to prevent this armed conflict that we seem to be heading into.
And you have made a great impression with your proposal. Will you tell the listeners over this station just what your proposal is and how you would put it into effect and carry it out.
I will I stand for world for world disarmament conference where all nations would disarm down to the lowest possible point keeping only such forces as is necessary to keep law and order within their own country.
What are the troubles about partial disarmament is this Senate to keep over it.
That is just the hydrogen bomb that is right if you if you can find it only through atomic weapons and a secure disarmament in this field.
Well that would take from us the thing in which we are strongest without any compensating reduction in the armaments of other countries where they are stronger.
If we were to get rid of our atomic weapons now and none was made and there were no other disarmament what we would do then would find that we were weaker than Russia.
We are stronger than Russia today because we have a big stock pile of these deadly weapons while Russia has a small stock pile.
If we just do away with these and stop there then we leave 200 divisions without bombs in Russia against 10 divisions without bombs of our own with which to protect the North European community and ourselves.
That is the serious error of partial disarmament. You have all the other weapons left anyway and we must remember that the war in New York was fought without any atomic bombs at all and it was a pretty tall darn bloody war.
So that everything else would remain and the war making potential with these iron you have achieved feet.
The only way to get peace on this earth in my opinion is to destroy the ability of mayce to make war through international agreements for disarmament.
Tired out completely and rigidly inspect it to see that they are tired out and they are after maintained without inspection all disarmament is not worth the paper's written off.
And whether it was the Russian would respond or not at least you feel that we ought to make final efforts to get them to agree on reducing and limiting all kinds of arms.
Well of course we should because if we would keep strong while the negotiations were going on we wouldn't reduce anything.
Therefore if they failed we'd be no worse off.
And if they succeeded and we could see that all the world could see that all nations were disarming on a gradual scale down to the point desired.
Why eat with thee the most tremendous boon for mankind in all the history of Christendom?
It would relieve the people not only from the fear of war but from turning their harder and cash and effort into the waste of war which they could use for schools, hospitals, roads to food, clothing and shelter and all the other things that they desire and could have stayed if they had this money for that purpose.
Senator Tideing's I know that the listeners over this station have enjoyed hearing your views and certainly this is something to think and study about to see if we cannot make this one final effort.
And I certainly agree with you about the conclusions that you have reached.
I am very, very excited to keep on.
I want to thank you for joining me on this program until this time next week. This is all from Washington.